feat: metal_devices datasource (#366)
equinix/terraform-provider-equinix: docs/data-sources/equinix_metal_devices.md

---
subcategory: "Metal"
---

# equinix_metal_devices

> Provides an Equinix Metal devices datasource. This can be used to find devices that meet a filter criteria.

Reviewer: Perhaps we should mention that `equinix_metal_device` is also available for fetching a single device.  Likewise, perhaps we should add the reverse note in `equinix_metal_device` docs.

## Example Usage

```hcl
# Following example will select c3.small.x86 devices which are deplyed in metro 'da' (Dallas)
# OR 'sv' (Sillicon Valley).
data "equinix_metal_devices" "example" {
    project_id = local.project_id
    filter {
        attribute = "plan"
        values    = ["c3.small.x86"]
    }
    filter {
        attribute = "metro"
        values    = ["da", "sv"]
    }
}

output "devices" {
    organization_id = local.org_id
    value = data.equinix_metal_devices.example.devices
}
```

```hcl
# Following example takes advantage of the `search` field in the API request, and will select devices with
# string "database" in one of the searched attributes. See `search` in argument reference.
data "equinix_metal_devices" "example" {
    search = "database"
}

output "devices" {
    value = data.equinix_metal_devices.example.devices
}
```

## search vs filter

> The difference between `search` and `filter` is that `search` is API parameter and the "filtering" will happen in the API side. The `filter` attribute is used in the terraform provider to fiter resoruces returned by the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The difference between `search` and `filter` is that `search` is an API parameter, interpreted by the Equinix Metal service. The "filter" arguments will be reduce the API list (or search) results by applying client-side filtering, within this provider.
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `project_id` - (Optional) ID of project containing the devices. Exactly one of `project_id` and `organization_id` must be set.
* `organization_id` - (Optional) ID of organization containing the devices.
* `search` - (Optional) - Search string to filter devices by hostname, description, short_id, reservation short_id, tags, plan name, plan slug, facility code, facility name, operating system name, operating system slug, IP addresses.",
* `filter` - (Optional) One or more attribute/values pairs to filter off of

>   - `attribute` - (Required) The attribute used to filter. Filter attributes are case-sensitive

Reviewer: Which attributes are filterable?
